#summary Global Methods

<wiki:toc max_depth="5" />

=Methods=

==View==
Alters the view used by the ZFDatagrid. The view is used for form elements rendering.

{{{
$grid->setView(Zend_View_Interface $view);
$grid->getView();
}}}

==Char Encoding==
Defines the encoding to be used:

Defaults to utf8

{{{
$grid->setCharEncoding('encoding');
$grid->getCharEncoding();
}}}


==Params==
Returns/sets/Removes params to the ZFdatagrid. Usually needed to change URL params 
{{{
$grid->setParam('name','value');
$grid->setParams(array $params);

$grid->getParam('paramName');
$grid->getParams(array);

$grid->removeParam('param');
$grid->removeAllParams();
}}}

==Field(s)==
Returns information about a field or fields

{{{
$grid->getField('field');
$grid->getFields($returnOptions = false);//Set to true to return all fields with options, and not only fields names.
}}}


==gridId==
Method to retrieve grid's id defined in the constructor
_Note:_ You can't set a new id after grid initialization 
{{{
$grid->getGridId();
}}} 

==KeyEvents==
Use this if you want filters to fire eith event "onChange"
{{{
$grid->setUseKeyEventsOnFilters(true);
}}}

==Filters In Export==
You can want to show which filters where applied to get the current document (pdf only atm).
{{{
$grid->setShowFiltersInExport(true);
}}}

You can also add custom text to be printed by passing an array 

{{{
$grid->setShowFiltersInExport(array('User'=>'Portugal'));
}}}

==Default Filters Values==
Use this method to pre-filter results. Please note that user can remove this filters

{{{
$grid->setDefaultFiltersValues(array('filed'=>'value'))
}}}


==Save Params in Session==
*SVN ONLY*
With this option set, grid will preserve filters, order, page and records per page.

{{{
$grid->saveParamsInSession(true);
}}}

The id is based on grid id. If not set the key action_controller_module will be used.

==Source==
Returns the Source Object in use
{{{
$grid->getSource();
$grid->setSource(Bvb_Grid_Source_Interface $source);
}}}

==Primary Key(s)==
This method returns a key=>pair array containing fields names and values that are primary key(s). Useful for use in decorators...

{{{
$grid->getPrimaryKeyFromUrl();//returns array
}}}


==Version==
Returns the current ZFDatagrid version. If using SVN it will return the latest revision.

{{{
$grid->getVersion();
}}}


==Total Records==
Returns the record number. This method can only be called after $grid->deploy();

{{{
$grid->getTotalRecords();
}}}


==Url==
Returns the current url. Receives an option argument (string|array) with the elements to remove

{{{
#assuming url= http:///zfdatagrid.com/grid/basic/order/Name_Asc/start/15
$grid->getUrl();//Retuns /grid/basic/order/Name_Asc/start/15
$grid->getUrl('start');// Returns /grid/basic/order/Name_Asc
$grid->getUrl(array('start','order'));//Returns /grid/basic/
}}}


==Reset Column(s)==
Use this method to reset all previous options defined for any field.

{{{
$grid->resetColumn('field');
$grid->resetColumns(array $fields);
}}}


==Update Column==
Sets options for a column.
{{{
$grid->updateColumn('field',array('title'=>'Some title'));
}}}

*INFO:* Check this page for a list of all available options [GridOptions Field Options]


==Escape Function==
Sets the escape function to be applied to fields values.

{{{
$grid->setDefaultEscapeFunction('htmlentities');
$grid->setDefaultEscapeFunction(array('custom','function'));
}}}

==Export==
Sets the available export options for the grid.

{{{
$grid->setExport(array('xml','odt','pdf','...'));
$grid->getExport();
}}}

==Default Filters==
Defines the default filters to be applied to the grid. Please note the user can remove this filters
{{{
$grid-SetDefautFiltersValues(array('field'=>'pre-filter','field2'=>'another'));
}}}


==Pagination==
Defines the number of records to be showed per page
{{{
$grid->setPagination((int) 20);
}}}

==Will Show==
This method will return an array with what will be shown. 
{{{
$grid->willShow();//returns: form|form|form&grid
}}}

=No custom methods=

This list shows the deploy classes that don't accept any particularly method, apart from the __construct() options. Check the available options [Zend_Config_Support at the Zend_Config page] 

 * Print
 * PDF
 * Word
 * Wordx
 * Excel
 * OFC (Open Flash Chart)
 * ODT (Open Document Format Text)
 * ODS (Open Document Format Spreadsheet)
 * Json
 * XML

=With Custom Methods=
 * [Bvb_Grid_Deploy_Table Table]
 * [Bvb_Grid_Deploy_OFC OFC]
 * [Bvb_Grid_Deploy_JqGrid jqGrid]
 
=About Exporting=
 Please note that if you are exporting for .docx, .odt or .ods formats and you library folder is not named _library_ you and you don't have defined the _APPLICATION_PATH_ you must set the correct name using the 
 {{{
 $grid->setLibraryDir('/path/to/library');
 }}}