#summary How to use formatters

= Introduction =

Formatters are useful to format field content such number, currency, date, etc, etc.

You can create your own formatters and then use them in the grid.

==Code Sample== 
{{{
class My_Formatter_Currency implements Bvb_Grid_Formatter_Interface
{

    function __construct($options)
    {
        
    } 

    function format($value)
    {
        if(!Zend_Registry::isRegistered('Zend_Locale'))
        {
            return $value;
        }

        $currency = new Zend_Currency(Zend_Registry::get('Zend_Locale'));
        return $currency->toCurrency($value);
    }

}
}}}

You must implement the Bvb_Grid_Formatter_Interface.

Your formatter may receive options that will be passed to the constructor

{{{
//No options
$grid->updateColumn('amount',array('format'=>'currency'));

//With options
$grid->updateColumn('amount',array('format'=>array('currency','pt_PT')));//Will pass the pt_PT value to the constructor. 
$grid->updateColumn('amount',array('format'=>array('currency',array('value1','{{amount}}','somehtingElse')))); //Will pass the array to the constructor
}}}

==Add You Dir==
To know where to look for formatters, you must first tell grid where to look for them.

You can accomplish that using the addFormatterDir() method

{{{
$grid->addFormatterDir('Bvb/Grid/Formatter','Bvb_Grid_Formatter');
}}}


==Default Formatters==
ZFDatagrid comes with 3 defaults formatters.
 *Currency
 *Date
 *Image
 
===Currency===

Sample:
{{{
$grid->updateColumn('field',array('format'=>'currency'));
}}}

ZFDatagrid will look for a key in Zend_Registry with the name Zend_Locale and set the locale. 

 Alternately you can set the locale to use:
 
 {{{
$grid->updateColumn('field',array('format'=>array('currency','pt_PT')));
 }}}

 ===Date===

  ZFDatagrid will  for a key in Zend_Registry with the name Zend_Locale and use it.
  
  You can also pass as argument a instance of Zend_Locale or an array with the following options
   * locale
   * date_format
   * type
  
  {{{
  $grid->updateColumn('field',array('format'=>'date'));
  }}} 
  
 ===Image===
 This is a simple formatter and will expect the image URL.
 {{{
$grid->updateColumn('field',array('format'=>'image'));
 }}}
 